The goal of my final project is to give the program and picture and have it draw a box around the object(s) in the image. I will be using the steps from Canny Edge Detection algorithm to find the edges. I will then use the edges to find the outline of the object and draw a box around it.

Steps/Procedure: 
1) I will apply a Gaussian filter to the image. This means that a 5x5 filter will be applied to the image. To accomplish this, I will create a kernel that applies the filter in a similar way that the Module 11 convolution kernel did. I may have to adjust the dimensions of the filter to get the best results. 
2) After the Gaussian filter is applied to the image, the resulting “image” is blurry. To detect the direction of the edge I will use the Prewitt Operator. To accomplish this, I will apply a 3x3 filter to the image to get the gradient in the x direction, and another 3x3 filter to get the gradient in the y direction. The second filter is just the transposition of the first 3x3 filter. 
3) To find the most prominent edge I will apply an algorithm that will find the local maximum of the gradient. This kernel will take edge pixel and will compare the magnitude of the edge in the pixel to the gradient in the pixels around it. A local maximum gradient will be stored and if a pixel has a gradient greater than the stored maximum gradient it will become the local maximum. 
4) Next, a threshold value will be used to remove noise. The kernel will take every pixel and compare it to this gradient threshold value, and if a pixel is lower than this value it will be removed. To find this threshold value I will need to experiment with some samples to determine the value that filters out noise but doesn’t take away from the actual gradient. 
5) To clean up the final image with the edges, I will need to filter on the strong edges. I can do this by filtering out the edges that aren’t connected to one of the edges that was above the gradient threshold value from the previous step. The kernel can iterate through the edges and see if the weak edge is connected to any strong edges. 
6) These steps should filter out all the background noise/objects. I will then get the horizontal and vertical edges of the object in the image by getting the edges on the outside. I can then draw horizontal and vertical lines on the original image, thus drawing a box around the object(s) in the image. 
